To begin, let's illustrate the importance of helping our Bible students to avoid bad
association, and we'll use the example of a prospector.
When a prospector finds something valuable deep underground, what does he do?
He must make certain that the weigh-in is secured, and that it's well-supported.
Otherwise, the treasure might be plundered, or the weigh-in could collapse.
This is similar to what we must be aware of when it comes to helping our Bible students.
We work hard to reach the hearts of responsive ones, don't we?
When we do, with Jehovah's help, we continue assisting them to secure and protect their
hearts.
This includes protecting their growing faith in Jehovah.
Otherwise, the devil will ruin what has been done and strip them of their faith.
If we are to help our students to progress, we must keep in mind why avoiding bad associations
is so important.
We must also have in mind how we can help our students to do this.
Let's first look at why this is so important.
In order for your Bible students to gain Jehovah's friendship, they will likely need to make
some changes in their choice of association.
Why?
Because your students' progress is greatly affected by his or her choice of friends.
Proverbs 13 and verse 20 explains why this is true.
Please go to that verse.
Proverbs 13-20, it reads,
The one walking with the wise will become wise, but the one who has dealings with the stupid
will fare badly.
Why does a person's choice of associates matter?
Because we cannot change what the verse says here.
The one who is walking or has dealings with the stupid will fare badly.
The fact is that our friends affect us in either a good way or a bad way, don't they?
In the Hebrew language, to have dealings with someone can mean to keep company with a
person, that is to be friends with a person.
If a Bible student seeks company with senseless people, he or she will not progress spiritually.
That's why it's so important to help our Bible students to avoid the problems that come
with bad association.
On the other hand, from Proverbs 13-20, we learned that the one walking with the wise
will become wise.
Here, the idea of walking with someone involves choosing to spend time with a person.
So help your Bible students to choose, well, wholesome associates in the truth will help
your students to break free from worldly thinking and unclean practices.
With this in mind, now that we have considered why we must help them, let's look some more
at how we can do so.
In the following dramatization, note how need helps her Bible student to seek out and
select good associates or friends.
Do not be misled, bad associations spoil useful habits.
Okay, but what's good associations?
Well, we have wholesome gatherings with our brothers and sisters from the congregation,
and we eat and talk, and some like to play musical instruments, and they'll do renditions
of original songs.
And we have a really nice time.
Yeah, I don't do that.
It's not boring.
Sure, it's not.
Well, what do you do?
You wouldn't do that.
It's not exactly wholesome.
But you've got to have fun, right?
True.
And we do.
See for yourself.
I'm having some people over this weekend.
Why don't you come?
It wasn't the club, but it was still fun.
Did you take note of how Nita helped her Bible student to seek good friends?
For one thing, she was empathetic, wasn't she?
Nita understood that her Bible student would need to see and experience some things for
herself.
Also, she invited her student to a gathering of brothers and sisters, and the impact of
that positive experience was obvious.
Likewise, when it comes to how we can help our Bible students, remember to be empathetic
as well.
All of us naturally desire to have friends.
Keep that in mind as you strive to help your students.
It can be difficult for them to seek out good associates.
After all, this is all new for them.
Added to this, as your students accept and apply Bible standards in their lives, some
of their former friends will likely reject them.
You can prepare them for this by showing them what the Bible says, for example, at 1 Peter
4, verse 4.
In that verse, we are made aware that people would be puzzled over the changes we make in
order to please Jehovah.
It also tells us that people might speak abusively of us and reject our changes.
This could even include members of one's own family, and that fact might be difficult
for your students to accept.
How can you help your students at a time like that, by giving them a real choice, along
with helping them to draw close to Jehovah, help your students to replace bad associations
with good ones.
Be a friend to your students, introduce them to others in the congregation.
Also, whenever possible, when the study is over, why not stay for a while and talk with
them, spend some time, and really get to know them.
Call your student whenever he or she is sick.
Show personal interest.
Sit with them at the meetings and invite others to sit in on the study with you.
And as illustrated in the video, like Nita, include your student in upbuilding social activities.
One formerly unbelieving husband who is now an elder recalls how a brother helped him.
He said that the brother took a day off from work just to watch a ball game with him,
and he thought to himself, he's normal.
It's also important to help your Bible student understand that bad association is not limited
to morally debased people.
The Bible tells us that the whole world, the whole world, is lying in the power of the
wicked one.
So then kindly help your students to see that we must also avoid association with those
who may appear to be morally clean, but who lack faith in the true God Jehovah.
In all of these ways, we see why we must help, and how we can help our Bible students
to avoid bad associations and accept good ones.
Remember, we must help them to secure the way into their heart and protect their faith.
As your students do this by avoiding bad associations, they will no doubt gain many lifelong friends,
including you.
And whether your student is a family member, or someone you meet in the ministry, you
will both have precious memories, and joy that will last forever.
Brother Anthony Morris, a member of the governing body, will now consider the next talk of this
symposium, help your Bible students to overcome unclean habits.